Something called embeddings. The large language models turns those tokens
into embedding vectors, turning those tokens into essentially a
bunch of numerical representations of those tokens, numbers.
And this makes it significantly easier for the computer to read and
understand each word and how the different words relate to each other. And these
numbers all correspond with the position in an embeddings
vector database. And then the final step in the process is transformers,
which we'll get to in a little bit. But first, let's talk about vector databases
and I'm going to use the terms word and token interchangeably. So just
keep that in mind because they're almost the same thing, not quite, but almost.
And so these word embeddings that I've been talking about are placed into
something called a vector database. These databases are storage and
retrieval mechanisms that are highly optimized for vectors.
And again, those are just numbers, long series of numbers. Because they're
converted into these vectors, they can easily see which words are
related to other words based on how similar they are, how close they
are based on their embeddings. And that is how the large language
model is able to predict to the next word based on the previous words.
Vector databases capture the relationship between data as
vectors in multidimensional space. I know that sounds complicated,
but it's really just a lot of numbers. Vectors are objects
with a magnitude and a direction which both influence how
similar one vector is to another. And that is how LLMs
represent words based on those numbers. Each word gets turned into a
vector capturing semantic meaning and its relationship to other
words. So here's an example, the words book and worm
which independently might not look like they're related to each other, but
they are related concepts because they frequently appear together,
a bookworm, somebody who likes to read a lot. And because of that, they will
have embeddings that look close to each other. And so models build up
an understanding of natural language using these embeddings and looking for
similarity of different words, terms, groupings of words, and all of
these nuanced relationships. And the vector format helps models
understand natural language better than other formats. And you can kind
of think of all this like a map. If you have a map with 2
landmarks that are close to each other, they're likely going to have very similar
coordinates. So it's kind of like that. Okay, now